Why are questions so effective?
Because they encourage our audience to think actively
instead of listening passively.
We can ask rhetorical questions to maintain interest.
We can pose a series of questions to reason on a subject
and lead our listeners to a logical conclusion.
And we can ask intriguing questions to introduce key ideas
or use review questions to conclude our presentation.
Why use rhetorical questions?
Well, let's watch what happens when we doubt.
Romans 6.23 says,
For the wages seen pays is death.
But the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus, our Lord.
The gift of the ransom came from Jehovah.
Immediately after Adam and Eve sinned,
Jehovah stated a solution that would offer hope
to all of their offspring.
He purposed that one of his Spirit creatures
come to the earth, live as a perfect human
and ultimately offer his life as a ransom.
Although it's often easier to explain a Bible text,
questions make our teaching more interesting and effective.
Watch as the speaker teaches the same point using rhetorical questions.
Romans 6.23 says,
For the wages seen pays is death.
But the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus, our Lord.
If Jesus is the one who suffered and died for us,
why does the verse speak of the ransom as the gift God gives?
Why not the gift Jesus gives?
Consider what we know from the book of Genesis.
Immediately after Adam and Eve sinned,
Jehovah stated a solution that would offer hope to all of their offspring.
He purposed that one of his Spirit creatures
come to the earth, live as a perfect human
and ultimately offer his life as a ransom.
There is another way too in which the ransom was a gift from God.
Have you ever thought of what God must have felt
when Jesus was put to death?
Rather than simply stating the truth,
the speaker stimulated interest by posing a question
that prompted his audience to think.
We can also use questions in the ministry
to help people we meet reason on a subject.
Let's look in on a return visit.
With that I heard a loud voice from the throne say,
Look, that tenth of God is with mankind
and He will reside with them and they will be His people.
And God Himself will be with them.
And He will wipe out every tear from their eyes
and death will be no more,
neither will morning nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.
So according to this prophecy,
what can we look forward to?
Well, when we're angels in heaven,
we won't have any more pain or death.
It's good that the question prompted a response
from the householder.
However, how can the publisher use questions
to lead the householder to the correct understanding
of these verses?
Let's watch.
Yes, God is going to end pain and death.
But where will this take place?
The verse says that pain and death will be no more.
Where do pain and death exist today?
Or on earth?
Rather than simply correcting the wrong thought,
the publisher used questions to help the householder
reason on the scriptures and come to the right conclusion.
Good teaching involves more than just relating information.
As we use tactful questions to maintain interest,
to reason with our listeners and to emphasize important points,
we imitate the grand instructor Jehovah God
and the great teacher, Jesus Christ.